<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook XML V4.4//EN"
"http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.4/docbookx.dtd">
<article>
  <articleinfo>
    <title>PB138 Inventory Management System</title>

    <subtitle>Final report</subtitle>

    <author>
      <firstname>Markéta</firstname>

      <surname>Elederová</surname>
    </author>
  </articleinfo>

  <para>My task in project Inventory Management System was to implement
  functionality for providing overviews of sales and validating XML files
  against given XML Schema and also to write the XML Schemas for all types of
  XML files that the system works with.</para>

  <section>
    <title>XML Schema</title>

    <para>It was needed to write four XML Schemas for import: for items, for
    categories, for shipments and for sales. One XML Schema is for export
    actual state of the goods in stock and two XML schemas for export overview
    of sales, one for overview sales of items, one of categories. To these XML
    Schemas I wrote also some example XMLs for testing the schemas and then
    for testing <classname>XMLValidator</classname> class.</para>
  </section>

  <section>
    <title>XML Validator</title>

    <para>In class <classname>XmlValidator</classname> are methods
    <methodname>validate</methodname> and <methodname>isValid</methodname>,
    that are used (together with the XML Schemas) in classes working with XML
    files.</para>
  </section>

  <section>
    <title>Overview Provider</title>

    <para>Providing overviews is implemented in class
    <classname>OverviewProvider</classname> and allows getting daily, weekly
    or monthly counts of sold particular items or items belonging to
    particular category. It uses other interfaces for items, categories and
    sales and it is used in web interface. I have also implemented class
    <classname>OverviewXmlExporter</classname> that can transform result
    returned from any <classname>OvervierProvider</classname> method to XML
    file.</para>
  </section>
</article>
